README.md, before:

# Fandjango

## About

Fandjango makes it easy to create Facebook applications powered by Django.

## Requirements

* Django (http://github.com/django/django)

## Usage

Fandjango parses the signed request provided to Facebook canvas applications and automatically saves users that
have authorized your application in its `User` model. Once a user has authorized your application, you may
access the corresponding model instance in `request.facebook.user`.

Instances of the `User` model have the following properties:

* `facebook_id` - An integer describing the user's Facebook ID.
* `first_name` - A string describing the user's first name.
* `last_name` - A string describing the user's last name.
* `profile_url` - A string describing the URL to the user's Facebook profile.
* `gender` - A string describing the user's gender.
* `oauth_token` - An OAuth Token object.
* `created_at` - A datetime object describing when the user was registered.
* `last_seen_at` - A datetime object describing when the user was last seen.

`oauth_token` is an instance of the `OAuthToken` model, which has the following properties:

* `token` - A string describing the OAuth token itself.
* `issued_at` - A datetime object describing when the token was issued.
* `expires_at` - A datetime object describing when the token expires (or `None` if it doesn't)

If the client has not authorized your application, `request.facebook.user` is `None`.

You may require a client to authorize your application before accessing a view with the
`facebook_authorization_required` decorator.

    from fandjango.decorators import facebook_authorization_required
    
    @facebook_authorization_required()
    def foo(request, *args, **kwargs):
        pass
      
This will redirect the request to the Facebook authorization dialog, which will in
turn redirect back to the original URI. The decorator accepts an optional argument `redirect_uri`,
allowing you to customize the location the user is redirected to after authorizing the application:

    from settings import FACEBOOK_APPLICATION_TAB_URL
    from fandjango.decorators import facebook_authorization_required
    
    @facebook_authorization_required(redirect_uri=FACEBOOK_APPLICATION_TAB_URL)
    def foo(request, *args, **kwargs):
        pass

If you prefer, you may redirect the request in a control flow of your own by using the
`redirect_to_facebook_authorization` function:

    from fandjango.utils import redirect_to_facebook_authorization
    
    def foo(request, *args, **kwargs):
        if not request.facebook.user:
            return redirect_to_facebook_authorization(redirect_uri='http://www.example.org/')
            
If the application is accessed from a tab on a Facebook Page, you'll find an instance of `FacebookPage`
in `request.facebook.page`.

Instances of the `FacebookPage` model have the following properties:

* `id` -- An integer describing the id of the page.
* `is_admin` -- A boolean describing whether or not the current user is an administrator of the page.
* `is_liked` -- A boolean describing whether or not the current user likes the page.
* `url` -- A string describing the URL to the page.

If the application is not accessed from a tab on a Facebook Page, `request.facebook.page` is `None`.

If the signed request is missing, `request.facebook` is `None`.
        
## Installation

* `pip install fandjango`
* Add `fandjango` to `INSTALLED_APPS`
* Add `fandjango.middleware.FacebookMiddleware` before `django.middleware.csrf.CsrfViewMiddleware` in `MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES`

## Configuration

Fandjango requires some constants to be set in your settings.py file:

* `FACEBOOK_APPLICATION_ID` - Your Facebook application's ID.
* `FACEBOOK_APPLICATION_SECRET_KEY` - Your Facebook application's secret key.
* `FACEBOOK_APPLICATION_URL` - Your application's canvas URI (ex. http://apps.facebook.com/my_application)
* `FACEBOOK_APPLICATION_INITIAL_PERMISSIONS` - A list of [extended permissions][2] to request upon authorizing the application (optional).
* `FANDJANGO_IGNORE_PATHS` - A list of regular expression patterns describing paths on which Fandjango should not act (optional). These
should typically be paths that are accessed outside of the Facebook Canvas, such as Django's admin site.

[2]: http://developers.facebook.com/docs/authentication/permissions

## Frequently asked questions

**Q:** *Do I need to pass the signed request around?*

**A:** No. Fandjango caches the latest signed request in a cookie so you don't have to worry about it.

**Q:** *Why does Django raise a CSRF exception when my application loads in the Facebook canvas?*

**A:** As of March 2011, Facebook's initial request to your application is a HTTP POST request that evaluates
to an attempt at cross-site request forgery by Django's built-in CSRF protection. Fandjango remedies this by
overriding the request method of POST requests that only contain a signed request to GET, but you need to make
sure that its middleware is loaded before Django's `CsrfViewMiddleware`.

**Q:** *Why does Fandjango set a new header called "P3P"?*

**A:** P3P (or *Platform for Privacy Preferences*) is a W3 standard that enables websites to express
their privacy practices in a standard format that can be retrieved automatically and interpreted easily
by user agents. While this is largely ignored by most browsers, Internet Explorer will ignore cookies
set by third-party websites (ie. websites loaded in iframes) unless it specifies some P3P policies.

You can read more about P3P at [w3.org][3].

[3]: http://www.w3.org/TR/P3P/

**Q:** *What happens when the OAuth token expires?*

**A:** Fandjango will automatically renew the signed request once the OAuth token
expires. It does this by hijacking the request and redirecting the client to Facebook, which
in turn redirects the client back to the URI it was originally retrieving with a new signed
request attached.

Commit message:

Add "getting started" to README

README.md, after:

# Fandjango

## About

Fandjango makes it easy to create Facebook applications powered by Django.

## Requirements

* Django (http://github.com/django/django)

## Getting started

You may find a sample application and a walkthrough to replicate it at the [Fandjango Example](https://github.com/jgorset/fandjango-example) repository.

## Usage

Fandjango parses the signed request provided to Facebook canvas applications and automatically saves users that
have authorized your application in its `User` model. Once a user has authorized your application, you may
access the corresponding model instance in `request.facebook.user`.

Instances of the `User` model have the following properties:

* `facebook_id` - An integer describing the user's Facebook ID.
* `first_name` - A string describing the user's first name.
* `last_name` - A string describing the user's last name.
* `profile_url` - A string describing the URL to the user's Facebook profile.
* `gender` - A string describing the user's gender.
* `oauth_token` - An OAuth Token object.
* `created_at` - A datetime object describing when the user was registered.
* `last_seen_at` - A datetime object describing when the user was last seen.

`oauth_token` is an instance of the `OAuthToken` model, which has the following properties:

* `token` - A string describing the OAuth token itself.
* `issued_at` - A datetime object describing when the token was issued.
* `expires_at` - A datetime object describing when the token expires (or `None` if it doesn't)

If the client has not authorized your application, `request.facebook.user` is `None`.

You may require a client to authorize your application before accessing a view with the
`facebook_authorization_required` decorator.

    from fandjango.decorators import facebook_authorization_required
    
    @facebook_authorization_required()
    def foo(request, *args, **kwargs):
        pass
      
This will redirect the request to the Facebook authorization dialog, which will in
turn redirect back to the original URI. The decorator accepts an optional argument `redirect_uri`,
allowing you to customize the location the user is redirected to after authorizing the application:

    from settings import FACEBOOK_APPLICATION_TAB_URL
    from fandjango.decorators import facebook_authorization_required
    
    @facebook_authorization_required(redirect_uri=FACEBOOK_APPLICATION_TAB_URL)
    def foo(request, *args, **kwargs):
        pass

If you prefer, you may redirect the request in a control flow of your own by using the
`redirect_to_facebook_authorization` function:

    from fandjango.utils import redirect_to_facebook_authorization
    
    def foo(request, *args, **kwargs):
        if not request.facebook.user:
            return redirect_to_facebook_authorization(redirect_uri='http://www.example.org/')
            
If the application is accessed from a tab on a Facebook Page, you'll find an instance of `FacebookPage`
in `request.facebook.page`.

Instances of the `FacebookPage` model have the following properties:

* `id` -- An integer describing the id of the page.
* `is_admin` -- A boolean describing whether or not the current user is an administrator of the page.
* `is_liked` -- A boolean describing whether or not the current user likes the page.
* `url` -- A string describing the URL to the page.

If the application is not accessed from a tab on a Facebook Page, `request.facebook.page` is `None`.

If the signed request is missing, `request.facebook` is `None`.
        
## Installation

* `pip install fandjango`
* Add `fandjango` to `INSTALLED_APPS`
* Add `fandjango.middleware.FacebookMiddleware` before `django.middleware.csrf.CsrfViewMiddleware` in `MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES`

## Configuration

Fandjango requires some constants to be set in your settings.py file:

* `FACEBOOK_APPLICATION_ID` - Your Facebook application's ID.
* `FACEBOOK_APPLICATION_SECRET_KEY` - Your Facebook application's secret key.
* `FACEBOOK_APPLICATION_URL` - Your application's canvas URI (ex. http://apps.facebook.com/my_application)
* `FACEBOOK_APPLICATION_INITIAL_PERMISSIONS` - A list of [extended permissions][2] to request upon authorizing the application (optional).
* `FANDJANGO_IGNORE_PATHS` - A list of regular expression patterns describing paths on which Fandjango should not act (optional). These
should typically be paths that are accessed outside of the Facebook Canvas, such as Django's admin site.

[2]: http://developers.facebook.com/docs/authentication/permissions

## Frequently asked questions

**Q:** *Do I need to pass the signed request around?*

**A:** No. Fandjango caches the latest signed request in a cookie so you don't have to worry about it.

**Q:** *Why does Django raise a CSRF exception when my application loads in the Facebook canvas?*

**A:** As of March 2011, Facebook's initial request to your application is a HTTP POST request that evaluates
to an attempt at cross-site request forgery by Django's built-in CSRF protection. Fandjango remedies this by
overriding the request method of POST requests that only contain a signed request to GET, but you need to make
sure that its middleware is loaded before Django's `CsrfViewMiddleware`.

**Q:** *Why does Fandjango set a new header called "P3P"?*

**A:** P3P (or *Platform for Privacy Preferences*) is a W3 standard that enables websites to express
their privacy practices in a standard format that can be retrieved automatically and interpreted easily
by user agents. While this is largely ignored by most browsers, Internet Explorer will ignore cookies
set by third-party websites (ie. websites loaded in iframes) unless it specifies some P3P policies.

You can read more about P3P at [w3.org][3].

[3]: http://www.w3.org/TR/P3P/

**Q:** *What happens when the OAuth token expires?*

**A:** Fandjango will automatically renew the signed request once the OAuth token
expires. It does this by hijacking the request and redirecting the client to Facebook, which
in turn redirects the client back to the URI it was originally retrieving with a new signed
request attached.
